David Schaich (he): So, we can get going with the last afternoon lecture, though not the
David Schaich (he): last lecture overall.  We have that holiday replacement scheduled for next Monday morning,
David Schaich (he): to wrap things up once and for all.  Before we get to there, I have the 6-digit code for you this afternoon:
David Schaich (he): 31, 38, 34.
David Schaich (he): And I should also mention that in addition to
David Schaich (he): the rescheduled lecture for next Monday,
David Schaich (he): we've missed a full four hours of lectures due to bank holidays this year, so I've been asked to make up the other two hours just with some supplemental pencasts.  The
David Schaich (he): first of those is on Canvas, dealing with
David Schaich (he): relativistic fermion gases, and a couple more will
David Schaich (he): follow over the coming week.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): are there any questions
David Schaich (he): from last time before we get under way with
David Schaich (he): further means of analyzing the Ising model this afternoon?
David Schaich (he): not seeing any of this recap.
David Schaich (he): Here we are at the
David Schaich (he): today and next Monday.
David Schaich (he): looking at the simplest possible
David Schaich (he): interacting and statistical system.
David Schaich (he): That is the using the
David Schaich (he): okay
David Schaich (he): 3 dimensional.
David Schaich (he): The energy of the system
David Schaich (he): is a combination of knowledge interactions between You're a city of repairs, of spins. That's true as can define by that by the structure.
David Schaich (he): Oh. each of the individual spins
David Schaich (he): to an external.
David Schaich (he): This is a
David Schaich (he): system that, despite its simplicity, it is not possible to solve analytically, that is, give a close form expression for this partition function in
David Schaich (he): more than 2 or fewer than infinite dimensions.
David Schaich (he): We've been doing it through
David Schaich (he): 3 ways of extracting information about the using model.
David Schaich (he): unfortunately spread out over 3 or 4 different weeks, just because we're going to be at one next year for a week. So the first of those
David Schaich (he): ways which we went through last time was the usual high in low temperature limits. We are.
David Schaich (he): the system simplifies. and the with those simplifications we were able to see. Yes.
David Schaich (he): magnetization of the system. expectation, value that.
David Schaich (he): and as usual, we are able to late to derivative
David Schaich (he): the
David Schaich (he): is a way of distinguishing between
David Schaich (he): the high temperature behavior.
David Schaich (he): It is an order parameter.
David Schaich (he): so call because
David Schaich (he): I am the temperature. Phases are characterized by the presence of
David Schaich (he): order. Among all these spins I can.
David Schaich (he): So the high temperature phase
David Schaich (he): using models just ordered
David Schaich (he): absolutely with the organization.
David Schaich (he): It is to 0 in the through dynamic limits of the number of degrees of freedom.
David Schaich (he): low temperature, phase, even the absence with an external introduce a preferred direction.
David Schaich (he): This magnetization pixel. the non-zero value that approaches it's maximum. introducing the absolute value. so that we don't have to distinguish between
David Schaich (he): out of the negative
David Schaich (he): and approaches that maximum as the temperature which is 0. What I forgot to do last week was awesome. visual. being, sort of distinguishing or remembering the distinctions between these.
David Schaich (he): I know temperature phases. So this is a collection of figures problem.
David Schaich (he): Vancouver is introduction to thermal business, which is one of the textbooks on the reading list. just taking it.
David Schaich (he): Individual snapshots of a 20 by 20, using model system as
David Schaich (he): several different temperatures.
David Schaich (he): We are
David Schaich (he): the black and white squares in these pictures are distinguishing between spins that
David Schaich (he): oh.
David Schaich (he): it was color, black and white view assigned to which orientation is completely up to you. But if you would get high temperatures in this 2
David Schaich (he): there is a roughly equal balance of up and down reporting spins
David Schaich (he): an organization
David Schaich (he): or these configurations
David Schaich (he): roughly 0,
David Schaich (he): and
David Schaich (he): essentially no way of distinguishing
David Schaich (he): these States from just randomly assigned
David Schaich (he): what values to the 400 spins
David Schaich (he): in each of these systems.
David Schaich (he): because the temperature decreases going down
David Schaich (he): 4, 3, and 2.5, and see the emergence of patches or their names.
David Schaich (he): These systems, with periodic boundary conditions.
David Schaich (he): wrap around from top to bottom. from left to right.
David Schaich (he): black and white watches
David Schaich (he): domains where all the spins are aligned, and eventually at the
David Schaich (he): very low temperatures. To
David Schaich (he): all of these things will the pointing in one direction or the other?
David Schaich (he): Okay.
David Schaich (he): the organization.
David Schaich (he): the t equals one case. Here is a little funny, just because temperature is so little. The system got stuck with this strike running across this.
David Schaich (he): Leave it
David Schaich (he): long enough running on the computer that generated these.
David Schaich (he): That's right. We'll eventually be, you know.
David Schaich (he): just one.
David Schaich (he): Here. It's relevant. To
David Schaich (he): Remember that with these 2520 lattice and something very large.
David Schaich (he): The number of things is like 2 to 400, which is. and to a very large number of.
David Schaich (he): I wonder.
David Schaich (he): as we go from that
David Schaich (he): the high temperature to a low temperature phases Here
David Schaich (he): there is some point where
David Schaich (he): change the word of parameters coming to you
David Schaich (he): convert from being 0, to being non-zero. and
David Schaich (he): yes, your is a
David Schaich (he): discounted you.
David Schaich (he): I'll stay with you for a moment.
Another picture at all.
David Schaich (he): This is a Sec.
David Schaich (he): In either the order, parameter. or any of its derivatives.
David Schaich (he): that you see
David Schaich (he): indication that this change is a true phase. Transition. as opposed to what is called a also
David Schaich (he): and just a gradual change between different types of behavior
David Schaich (he): in the 2D easy model. I'll give you a bit of a support that there is a two-phase transition.
David Schaich (he): and this is a much larger lattice generated by a computer taken at
David Schaich (he): that
David Schaich (he): pretty cool temperature of that phase transition. The point where
David Schaich (he): it occurs where there is a discontinuity in a derivative of the mechanization
David Schaich (he): that is. the critical temperature.
David Schaich (he): right inverse critical temperature.
David Schaich (he): or the to be using model is no exactly one half. one
David Schaich (he): of one plus square root of 2,
David Schaich (he): which is absolutely 4. Point 4, 4. So an inverse temperature a little about 2
David Schaich (he): in between him. the 2 and 2.5
David Schaich (he): examples we
David Schaich (he): just looked at previously at this phase transition.
David Schaich (he): The behavior of the system is characterized by these dual names for me at all different length scales. So it's small black patches.
These march my patches
David Schaich (he): up to the overall size. I'll pull my out of speed and considered.
David Schaich (he): So that is what we were able to get out of considering the hang on low temperature. This is the using model. If there are your questions about this limits which
David Schaich (he): repeats the basic form of calculations you've done several times. For precisely this reason.
David Schaich (he): I know we can move on to
David Schaich (he): the second of the 3 ways of approaching, using all the suggested by it.
David Schaich (he): The account for today, something to etc.
David Schaich (he): You want to take the same sort of approach that if I took to the complicated
David Schaich (he): interactions with the
David Schaich (he): that he was able to model as a
David Schaich (he): ideal, not a direct and gas of particles and other phones you want to find some approximation to
David Schaich (he): the easy model that
David Schaich (he): it's rid of these interactions and gives us a
David Schaich (he): approximate model in terms of.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): where we approach. This is to go back to the
David Schaich (he): considerations of the that we ended with. Last week. We saw that the
David Schaich (he): magnetization was related to
David Schaich (he): the average spin. So something over all of this in the lattice, divided by that total number.
David Schaich (he): gives us the
and this holds as well. If we look at the
David Schaich (he): expectation value averaging over all possible and configurations. We didn't either exponential points and factors. So that really means that the magnetization
you consider just to be
David Schaich (he): me value of the
David Schaich (he): for a given temperature and external magnetic field. These expectation values some overhaul of the possible spin configurations, and therefore independence of
David Schaich (he): the values. Are any of all of this.
David Schaich (he): and a basic
David Schaich (he): correct almost to use
David Schaich (he): too simple to you, worth considering. These 2,
David Schaich (he): and and subtract this mean spin
David Schaich (he): in the interactions term that here is in the
David Schaich (he): energy for the user model Sj. Times, Sc. Or you to arbitrary Us. Neighborhoods
David Schaich (he): just correct
David Schaich (he): the expectation value from each of those skills
David Schaich (he): in place. Nothing.
David Schaich (he): it's happened, probably
David Schaich (he): able to. We organize.
David Schaich (he): You know, the whole system
David Schaich (he): in terms of
David Schaich (he): this means spin the magnetization. So this is expanding through
David Schaich (he): the products of those 2 terms.
David Schaich (he): You know what we can suppose as our approximation
David Schaich (he): is that.
David Schaich (he): on average.
David Schaich (he): you're all in the
David Schaich (he): projector.
David Schaich (he): There is back again.
David Schaich (he): On average. there are all these small populations
David Schaich (he): around that mean value of the spin. It is the
David Schaich (he): is the average value of the spin. We organize things in terms of fluctuations around it.
David Schaich (he): The fluctuations on any given configuration going on
David Schaich (he): one term to the next are necessarily
David Schaich (he): and only one of those can
David Schaich (he): by that mean value. But if we average over a large number of spins.
David Schaich (he): you can
David Schaich (he): suppose that this product of 2 small fluctuations
David Schaich (he): is going to.
David Schaich (he): and Bill is so make me
David Schaich (he): with the bulk of the system being caught in the
David Schaich (he): 2 million in terms which are all that are left. Yeah. The energy that we have
David Schaich (he): on the screen. Briefly, the energy for the using a model.
David Schaich (he): This takes the form
David Schaich (he): mine. This is some over all the
David Schaich (he): these 2 factors.
David Schaich (he): It means, then.
the organization
David Schaich (he): squared.
David Schaich (he): and we still have.
David Schaich (he): and magnetic field.
David Schaich (he): Right
David Schaich (he): now. What we can do is this magnetization square, we've said, is independent of all the
David Schaich (he): all the spin configurations. It's just a constant that's
David Schaich (he): will be counted by the number of links in the lattice.
David Schaich (he): You see there are to the links.
and it.
you know, to be factors of the cost of
David Schaich (he): magnetization squared. And then in the other term we do have dependence on Jk.
David Schaich (he): This will be 2 spins that are at the end of the link between them.
David Schaich (he): As we some over all of the links in the lattice, we will
David Schaich (he): pick up
David Schaich (he): every single spin
we
David Schaich (he): number of times that
David Schaich (he): hold on and spins. Yeah.
David Schaich (he): each of those n spins has 2D and links attached to it.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): each of these spins
David Schaich (he): here 2D times
David Schaich (he): in that, some over.
David Schaich (he): and the links.
David Schaich (he): So we have it. and the factors of the Council of my organization square. and then
David Schaich (he): to the links for each spin that we can combine.
David Schaich (he): I'll be just doing that.
David Schaich (he): and
David Schaich (he): this
David Schaich (he): with the energy. the phones so called
David Schaich (he): approximation
David Schaich (he): in tweets. This combination of
David Schaich (he): number of nearest neighbors of each spin and the external field as
David Schaich (he): an effective may, I feel. yeah.
David Schaich (he): each on average fields. by virtue of averaging over
David Schaich (he): all of this to the nearest neighbors.
David Schaich (he): so sorry to if the 2 is in the end soft at first, or there any questions about
David Schaich (he): how we got to this expression for the energy as an approximation to the easy model.
David Schaich (he): Maybe one question could be. Why are we operating with this?
Yeah.
David Schaich (he): go back to the question we asked.
David Schaich (he): what happens to
David Schaich (he): this mean field energy
David Schaich (he): that we
David Schaich (he): make an alteration through the random speed that in the system
David Schaich (he): all that we can do with the spin is flip it.
David Schaich (he): So if we
David Schaich (he): hey, guys.
David Schaich (he): I was really Sj.
David Schaich (he): Some over
David Schaich (he): all the spins.
David Schaich (he): and then.
David Schaich (he): with that degree of freedom. Well.
David Schaich (he): it's the Times and
David Schaich (he): I'm.
And
David Schaich (he): in configuration we just kick off
David Schaich (he): unaffected.
The resulting change of energy from altering this degree of freedom
David Schaich (he): is twice that
David Schaich (he): you, for your freedom itself
it was.
David Schaich (he): is
David Schaich (he): independent of. or the my good to Jay. which is our definition.
David Schaich (he): I'll be statistical system which we can expect dramatic simplifications. behavior like spectralization.
David Schaich (he): But we haven't gotten all the way back to non attracting spin system. But we
David Schaich (he): 6 months ago there is still.
David Schaich (he): I think, using mobile interaction
David Schaich (he): in the form of this
David Schaich (he): effective maybe I feel that depends on the
David Schaich (he): and
I have dropped invited to see that there is a.
that so
David Schaich (he): explicitly.
David Schaich (he): Times my organization.
David Schaich (he): What's the external magnetic field and that role of an organization? It's going to give us different behavior compared to
David Schaich (he): not a
David Schaich (he): starting to see that. as always is.
David Schaich (he): If you do that the
David Schaich (he): partition function good. Indeed!
David Schaich (he): The partition function
David Schaich (he): you can get to all of the internal energy entropy. And now the for our system. So you
David Schaich (he): approximation
David Schaich (he): that we have sums over all possible configurations on the spin.
David Schaich (he): It's the energy
David Schaich (he): negative science, yet
David Schaich (he): it's not
David Schaich (he): so. We have in the some of us, and configurations exponential.
David Schaich (he): It's inverse temperature times
for a few times, and
David Schaich (he): and then
David Schaich (he): so over all of all of the space
David Schaich (he): and what we can
David Schaich (he): you right away. that exponential. you
David Schaich (he): and square the constant factor that.
David Schaich (he): And then what remains in this cell over spin configurations
David Schaich (he): is an exponential of a sum
David Schaich (he): over Sn. It just has. we saw in the long track, in case
David Schaich (he): factorizes into a product of songs over each of those
David Schaich (he): individual.
David Schaich (he): That's one that same factor for spin 2 so long all the way up to you can spend.
David Schaich (he): So each of these again, just as before. We all yeah.
David Schaich (he): it's some of 2 terms e to the plus
David Schaich (he): yeah h
David Schaich (he): plus e to the minus beta h, which is twice the
David Schaich (he): I don't really care about how, since
David Schaich (he): factors out front. So what is called that, c. You get twice. I have the most close sign
David Schaich (he): I don't
David Schaich (he): for each of the in terms in this product. and just to be explicit you have
David Schaich (he): in.
David Schaich (he): I could all the to assign now
David Schaich (he): the Beta times to the as an organization.
David Schaich (he): What's the all of that is raised to the
David Schaich (he): so? It is
David Schaich (he): the same form as we had, for not the tracking spins empowers the hyperbolic to assign it. But now there's a complication that inside the mean field partition function itself
David Schaich (he): is the expectation value of the organization
David Schaich (he): which we saw last time.
David Schaich (he): It's proportional to
David Schaich (he): of the log of the partition function for the full system.
David Schaich (he): Want to ensure that
David Schaich (he): the setup is self-consistent.
David Schaich (he): Then the mechanization that we get out
David Schaich (he): of the meeting fuel partition function. and that' be
David Schaich (he): identifiable.
David Schaich (he): It was in
David Schaich (he): some order for this expression, for partition function makes sense. You have to demand the mechanization it's given.
David Schaich (he): I think, derivative
David Schaich (he): partition function
David Schaich (he): In addition to i'm responding to that same expression for the full interacting easy model. Yeah. This is a calculation that
David Schaich (he): we have already done that we can
David Schaich (he): essentially see a following inspection: the one over and out from us.
David Schaich (he): Yeah, there, you one of the the H appears in the argument behind all cosine.
It was
David Schaich (he): one over that
David Schaich (he): i'll structure.
David Schaich (he): She will go through.
David Schaich (he): and finally another round of change. a factor of Beta on the
David Schaich (he): the one over Beta we had out front. So in the end
David Schaich (he): just yes. the familiar hydraulic tangent.
David Schaich (he): I would pay the times that effective magnetic field
David Schaich (he): We'll keep in terms of the magnetization.
David Schaich (he): And you.
David Schaich (he): actual.
David Schaich (he): What we have here is
David Schaich (he): the transcendental equation
David Schaich (he): that release the left hand side
David Schaich (he): to itself in the argument of the hyperbolic tangent.
David Schaich (he): so a ratio of exponential factors.
David Schaich (he): It has the mechanization in this.
David Schaich (he): so this relation that the organization is equal to
David Schaich (he): the tension itself with factors of the and the external magnetic field.
David Schaich (he): This is the condition
David Schaich (he): for the system to be self-consistent.
David Schaich (he): this one given by
David Schaich (he): that mean fuel calculation.
David Schaich (he): the assumption that
David Schaich (he): fluctuations
David Schaich (he): around the mean spin
David Schaich (he): on average. are small.
David Schaich (he): Yeah, in order to solve the self consistency condition.
David Schaich (he): Yeah.
David Schaich (he): easiest way to go from looking into a computer is to
David Schaich (he): but the left and right hand side of this equation.
David Schaich (he): What maximization
David Schaich (he): and this hyperbolic, the engines.
David Schaich (he): 2D animal plus each.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): yeah, I look to see where the 2 sides of the equation agree with those 2 curves
David Schaich (he): intersect.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): this is how that sort of thing
David Schaich (he): attempt to
David Schaich (he): challenge my
David Schaich (he): just.
David Schaich (he): These curves should come out as nicely as I and my through applied program. So we have those 2 functions on it versus the average magnetization.
David Schaich (he): Of course the
David Schaich (he): my
David Schaich (he): is
David Schaich (he): just the hyper of all tangents.
David Schaich (he): Oh, and it's so. which
David Schaich (he): we'll get to
David Schaich (he): the expression we have over here. Hi! So here V equals to working with the two-dimensional easing model.
David Schaich (he): same the
David Schaich (he): and turning off the
David Schaich (he): we have
David Schaich (he): and i'll stage
David Schaich (he): go into H to 0
David Schaich (he): 2 times 2 is 4 over 4 is one. Just the
David Schaich (he): that is shown here, where we can see my inspection that there is only a single intersection. Yes.
David Schaich (he): the vanishing value of the maximization
David Schaich (he): similar
David Schaich (he): to be fully explosive
David Schaich (he): intersection
David Schaich (he): at M. Equals 0. We can identify
David Schaich (he): and
David Schaich (he): disorder phase
David Schaich (he): of the easy model
David Schaich (he): that is being reproduce for this particular temperature or magnetic field and number dimensions from that mean fuel approximation.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): the question now becomes out of these. this intersections, or this root following procedure?
David Schaich (he): What is that
David Schaich (he): when you don't just have the simplest possible choice
David Schaich (he): of
David Schaich (he): arguments simplifying that hyperbolic tangent.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): we'll keep 2 dimensions fixed for remain your own. Today we saw that with each is of 0 temperature of 4.
David Schaich (he): The mean fuel approximation put us in. You just want to face
David Schaich (he): the vanishing magnetization
David Schaich (he): if we hold on a non-zero
in the field.
David Schaich (he): Yeah.
David Schaich (he): keeping everything else. The same so still 2 mentioned temperature of 4.
David Schaich (he): What happens in the
David Schaich (he): arguments of that hyperbolic tensions? Is that
David Schaich (he): a positive magnetic field?
David Schaich (he): What calls do you?
David Schaich (he): This particular is
David Schaich (he): last 2 units of magnetic field.
David Schaich (he): whereas a negative magnetic field shifts everything to the right.
David Schaich (he): and the intersection that we have between
David Schaich (he): and the hyperbolic tangent shifts along with the tangent.
David Schaich (he): I'm. Sorry. I just simply non-zero value.
David Schaich (he): and let's see
David Schaich (he): I can feed on the screen.
David Schaich (he): What was your age?
David Schaich (he): Just those 200 functions
David Schaich (he): the intersection
David Schaich (he): at
David Schaich (he): call, and not
David Schaich (he): We are right.
David Schaich (he): plus or minus 2 getting up with.
David Schaich (he): and not as that 4.9. You can read all the
David Schaich (he): minimum of the maximum value of the
David Schaich (he): that we know we should bound our organization. We are most of the way there with this guy, you of the magnetic field.
David Schaich (he): So what we have now with the
David Schaich (he): this is again
David Schaich (he): lion, yet
David Schaich (he): with the external.
David Schaich (he): any questions about
David Schaich (he): that first step of exploring the possible possible solutions to a transcendental self consistency Addition
David Schaich (he): the
David Schaich (he): deal with. In addition to this magnetic field. Use the temperature right.
David Schaich (he): You can see. looking back to.
David Schaich (he): you know.
to work with.
David Schaich (he): reduce the temperature larger than all you.
David Schaich (he): You know
David Schaich (he): this expression. everything else staying in the same. And then, as the mechanization changes, this merger Beta.
David Schaich (he): we'll pump up the change in the
David Schaich (he): so we will see the faster change between the plus one and minus one minutes
David Schaich (he): of the all tangents
David Schaich (he): which is showing this next figure he
David Schaich (he): 2 dimensions.
David Schaich (he): 2 years of
David Schaich (he): the magnetic field, plus or minus 2. The
David Schaich (he): now I do see the temperature of 4 2. The data is it half rather than a quarter.
David Schaich (he): the yes shifts between minus one to one
David Schaich (he): more quickly than before.
David Schaich (he): and the resulting interception with
David Schaich (he): to the cell phone. also ships to
David Schaich (he): of what
David Schaich (he): On this
David Schaich (he): my organization approaches it Maximum value
David Schaich (he): an actual magnitude. I should say.
David Schaich (he): plus or minus one and lower temperature. So that is
David Schaich (he): reassuringly consistent with what we saw last week.
David Schaich (he): looking at the absence.
David Schaich (he): and
David Schaich (he): probably the work that we did last week without any magnetic field
public today.
David Schaich (he): We should expect. If this mean fuel, approximation really is a good approximation to the easing model. we should see this appearance of an ordered phase.
David Schaich (he): even without an external fuel to
David Schaich (he): of all the spins
David Schaich (he): as we were seeing
David Schaich (he): that was a so
David Schaich (he): from okay low temperature model last week.
David Schaich (he): you expect at this order phase should be presence.
David Schaich (he): Even when we turn off the
David Schaich (he): to explore this, we can do so. Set H. Equals 0. Configure it. 3 values. or that temperature, 2, 4, and 8
David Schaich (he): blue, 1, 2
David Schaich (he): green to red.
David Schaich (he): Beta is itself, and decreasing from what half to a quarter.
David Schaich (he): 2 and 8. As the temperature it's higher.
David Schaich (he): so you can see up here that
David Schaich (he): that disorder phase
David Schaich (he): is always a possible solution.
David Schaich (he): All of these groups
David Schaich (he): really H. Equals 0 pass through
David Schaich (he): the origin.
David Schaich (he): It's 0.
David Schaich (he): So let me compare
David Schaich (he): those 3 temperatures. A disorder based solution
David Schaich (he): is always possible.
David Schaich (he): You can see just by visual inspection
David Schaich (he): in the lowest half of your case t equals 2.
David Schaich (he): We have additional solutions.
David Schaich (he): we from 0 an organization
David Schaich (he): in particular, you
David Schaich (he): Oh, God!
David Schaich (he): Positive, negative. Now I use at the same magnitude, and not
David Schaich (he): so we have additional solutions.
David Schaich (he): Go along.
David Schaich (he): Nationalization possibility.
David Schaich (he): Just get him.
We we
David Schaich (he): you have that non-zero, and not
David Schaich (he): as an additional solution at low temperature there.
David Schaich (he): Yes.
David Schaich (he): he decreases down to 0.
David Schaich (he): So for this inspection it's not clear what exactly is going on in that
David Schaich (he): low temperature
David Schaich (he): regime, where we seem to have a both
David Schaich (he): ordered and disordered solutions even possible.
David Schaich (he): Just a few more minutes to
David Schaich (he): answer that question.
David Schaich (he): Yeah.
David Schaich (he): the answer might be quick. So we'll come back to it next week.
David Schaich (he): Let's consider what what happened. If we were to start with the system at? Yeah, I'm asking self- vanishing value of My organization.
David Schaich (he): Yeah, we you have a little kick you for screw
David Schaich (he): the value of the organization. It's just a random fluctuation.
David Schaich (he): Takes it to so very small non-zero positive number. Absolutely.
David Schaich (he): If we we get that red curve, the high temperature.
David Schaich (he): you can see that as soon as
David Schaich (he): the value of the organization is no 0, we should absolutely in that direction. The red curve is too small compared to
David Schaich (he): be consistent with
David Schaich (he): same thing in that.
David Schaich (he): You know the way that's
David Schaich (he): it's larger
David Schaich (he): that you instructor.
David Schaich (he): So in order to
David Schaich (he): it back to a self-
David Schaich (he): The system will want to reduce the organization that is too large.
David Schaich (he): which we'll send it back in to the question where it started off.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): yes.
David Schaich (he): any equals 0 solution
David Schaich (he): is these people
David Schaich (he): equilibrium or any fluctuation away from it, will immediately be
David Schaich (he): corrected.
David Schaich (he): My virtue of magnetization being
David Schaich (he): too large and not surprisingly. You can see that the situation is the opposite. The low temperature is the view curve. As soon as we get
David Schaich (he): absolutely shifting from
David Schaich (he): the origin. The organization is too small compared with him.
David Schaich (he): In order to
David Schaich (he): returns, we self-consistence equilibrium.
David Schaich (he): The system will what to
David Schaich (he): increase my organization to try to get back into
David Schaich (he): self-consistent agreement with the other side of the equation.
David Schaich (he): In other words.
David Schaich (he): give it even a if it is a small fluctuation away from 0.
David Schaich (he): The system will want to keep going to
David Schaich (he): values of the
David Schaich (he): you see
David Schaich (he): self- Yeah, we'll eventually find that
David Schaich (he): once it reaches and not and
David Schaich (he): happened.
David Schaich (he): The fluctuation is in the other directions. We go to
David Schaich (he): the negative
David Schaich (he): solution.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): the conclusion for today
David Schaich (he): it's really out of time
David Schaich (he): is the actual temperatures. Where we have these 3 solutions to our self consistency condition.
David Schaich (he): the one at vanishing magnetization is unstable. Any fluctuation around it.
David Schaich (he): We'll send the system off
David Schaich (he): to one of the other of the order solutions
David Schaich (he): that you.
The conclusion is
David Schaich (he): in
David Schaich (he): this setup with low temperature and no external magnetic field.
David Schaich (he): Successfully we produce our expectation on the order of phase
David Schaich (he): appearing at the
David Schaich (he): your temperatures
David Schaich (he): within all 0 value of that organization.
David Schaich (he): So that's all that we have time for today. Hopefully
David Schaich (he): this argument about stability and instability. His
David Schaich (he): we are, even though
David Schaich (he): there is
David Schaich (he): you coming in the chat window.
David Schaich (he): Do we have a focus of the exam?
David Schaich (he): You know, we can spend that some of the time in the tutorial on Thursday talking about Exam Review a separate issue. That's also something we can. Video next Monday.
David Schaich (he): There are as well those 3 sample exams now with solutions on canvas. and i'll encourage you to
David Schaich (he): probably going through the sample exams before looking at the solutions, just because that's how you get those set of practicing them
David Schaich (he): Further questions before you call it an afternoon with the main field approximation.
David Schaich (he): Yes, it will be very similar to them.
David Schaich (he): It's 2h rather than the 1h that we had last year, which will give you more time to
David Schaich (he): work on things.
David Schaich (he): And yeah, those exams are uploaded because they are
David Schaich (he): good guides to what you will be, seeing.
David Schaich (he): so that stop recording it. that let you go.